# Module 6 : texture

Références en lien avec le module 6 : texture.

## Concepts OpenGL

Texture  
https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Texture

Texture storage  
https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Texture_Storage

Sampler Object  
https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Sampler_Object

Mathematics of glTexGen  
https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Mathematics_of_glTexGen

Point Sprite  
https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Primitive#Point_primitives

## Commandes OpenGL

Commande OpenGL : **glGenTexture**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glGenTextures.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glBindTexture**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBindTexture.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glTexParameter**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glTexParameter.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glActiveTexture**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glActiveTexture.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glTexImage2D**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glTexImage2D.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glTexSubImage2D**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glTexSubImage2D.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glGetTexImage**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glGetTexImage.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glGenerateMipmap**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glGenerateMipmap.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glGenSamplers**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glGenSamplers.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glDeleteSamplers**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glDeleteSamplers.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glBindSampler**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glBindSampler.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glSamplerParameter**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glSamplerParameter.xhtml

Commande OpenGL : **glGetSamplerParameter**  
https://www.khronos.org/registry/OpenGL-Refpages/gl4/html/glGetSamplerParameter.xhtml

## GLSL

Sampler  
https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Sampler_(GLSL)

## Wikipédia

Wikipédia : Texture mapping  
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texture_(image_de_synthèse)

Wikipedia : Texture mapping  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texture_mapping

Wikipédia : Texel  
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texel_(infographie)

Wikipedia : Texel  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texel_(graphics)

Wikipedia : Compression de texture (DDS)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DirectDraw_Surface

Wikipedia : Compression de texture (S3TC)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S3_Texture_Compression

Wikipedia : Compression de texture (PVRTC)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PVRTC

Wikipedia : Compression de texture (ASTC)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adaptive_Scalable_Texture_Compression

Wikipedia : Compression de texture (3DC)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3Dc

Wikipedia : Compression de texture (FXT1)  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FXT1

Wikipedia : Perlin noise  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perlin_noise

## openFrameworks

ofImage  
https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/graphics/ofImage/

ofPixels  
https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/graphics/ofPixels/

ofTexture  
https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/gl/ofTexture/

ofFbo  
https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/gl/ofFbo/

ofFbo::Settings  
https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/gl/ofFbo%3A%3ASettings/

ofBook : Textures  
https://openframeworks.cc/ofBook/chapters/openGL.html#textures

ofEnableNormalizedTexCoords  
https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/gl/ofTexture/#show_ofEnableNormalizedTexCoords

## Conversion de couleur

### Correction gamma
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Correction_gamma  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma_correction  
https://demonstrations.wolfram.com/GammaCorrection/  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optical_transfer_function  
https://learnopengl.com/Advanced-Lighting/Gamma-Correction  
https://www.g-truc.net/post-0263.html

### Mappage tonal
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mappage_ton_local  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tone_mapping  
https://docs.unrealengine.com/4.27/en-US/RenderingAndGraphics/PostProcessEffects/ColorGrading/  
https://filmicworlds.com/blog/filmic-tonemapping-operators/  
https://knarkowicz.wordpress.com/2016/01/06/aces-filmic-tone-mapping-curve/  
https://www.oscars.org/science-technology/sci-tech-projects/aces

## Anticrénelage

Wikipédia  
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crénelage  
https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anticrénelage  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anti-aliasing  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spatial_anti-aliasing  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supersampling  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multisample_anti-aliasing  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_anti-aliasing  
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyquist–Shannon_sampling_theorem

Nvidia  
https://developer.download.nvidia.com/assets/gamedev/files/sdk/11/FXAA_WhitePaper.pdf  
https://www.geforce.com/hardware/technology/txaa  
https://www.geforce.com/hardware/technology/txaa/technology

SMAA  
https://iryoku.com/mlaa/  
https://iryoku.com/smaa/  
https://iryoku.com/aacourse/

## Divers

open.gl : Texture et configuration des paramètres  
https://open.gl/textures

opengl-tutorial : Cube avec texture  
https://www.opengl-tutorial.org/beginners-tutorials/tutorial-5-a-textured-cube/

Nvidia : OpenGL Cube Map Texturing (1999)  
https://developer.nvidia.com/gpugems/gpugems/part-iii-materials/chapter-19-image-based-lighting

LearnOpenGL : Cubemaps  
https://learnopengl.com/Advanced-OpenGL/Cubemaps

Unreal : Comparaison de techniques de compression  
https://udn.epicgames.com/Two/TextureComparison.html

MSDN: Block compression  
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-ca/windows/win32/direct3d10/d3d10-graphics-programming-guide-resources-block-compression

Android Lesson Six: An Introduction to Texture Filtering  
https://www.learnopengles.com/android-lesson-six-an-introduction-to-texture-filtering/

Heterogeneous compute case study: image convolution filtering  
https://www.imgtec.com/blog/heterogeneous-compute-case-study-image-convolution-filtering/

Types of Convolution Kernels : Simplified  
https://towardsdatascience.com/types-of-convolution-kernels-simplified-f040cb307c37

Gimp: Convolution Matrix  
https://docs.gimp.org/2.6/en/plug-in-convmatrix.html

github: vdumoulin / conv arithmetic  
https://github.com/vdumoulin/conv_arithmetic

Article sur le filtrage anisotropique  
https://paroj.github.io/gltut/Texturing/Tut15%20Anisotropy.html

tonemapper — A tool for exploring and applying various tonemapping operators  
https://github.com/tizian/tonemapper
